The following laws govern distribution, possession and use of drugs and drug paraphernalia:
/italic/United States:/enditalic/ The Harrison Act of 1914 as amended, the Marijuana Tax Act of 1937 and the Drug Abuse Control Amendments of 1965.
/italic/Ohio:/enditalic/ Chapters 2925 and 3719 of the Ohio Revised Code, appropriate sections.  The sale or possession of drugs can result in substantial  fines or prison terms under Ohio law.  Section 2925.14 prohibits the use, possession, sale, manufacture or advertisement of drug paraphernalia and requires its seizure.  The state of Ohio does not currently recognize or permit the use of medical marijuana, even that which is permitted in other states or countries.  Students who have health concerns should see the Health Center.
Kenyon will not tolerate student involvement with illegal drugs or possession of drug paraphernalia (e g , bongs, water pipes, roach clips, hookahs and hookahs that test positive for drugs, scales, cutters).  This includes the illegal possession, use, abuse, distribution or provision of prescription or nonprescription medications.  Violations of the law will result in disciplinary action; penalties may include suspension or dismissal, depending on the seriousness and extent of the offense.  The College also will take disciplinary action against any student who endangers his or her own or another student’s health or academic performance through drug use, abuse, distribution or provision.  Students found responsible for violating this policy may also be required to participate in counseling, assessment and/or treatment; this may need to take place off campus at the student’s expense.
When drugs or drug paraphernalia are found, Campus Safety will be notified and the Knox County Sheriff ’s Office may be contacted.

If drugs, drug paraphernalia, drug distribution or provision are found in a shared living space, all residents will be held accountable.
Students found responsible for manufacture and/or distribution, or provision, of drugs will be dismissed and referred to appropriate legal authorities.