/bold/Withdrawal from the College/endbold/Students who plan to leave Kenyon for the remainder of a semester, or for a semester or more (except students studying under the auspices of the Center for Global Engagement), or permanently, must declare their intentions to the vice president of student affairs or her/his designee by completing a declaration of withdrawal form.
/bold/Grades and credit/endbold/ Grades and credit for students withdrawing from the College depend on the time of the withdrawal.  The policy is as follows:• Before the end of week 12: W (no credit or grade) in all courses.• After week 12: W in all year courses*; F in all semester courses, unless the courses have been completed (in which case grade and credit are recorded), or unless the deans find the withdrawal is justified (e g , because of illness), in which case WI is recorded.• Between the beginning of the second semester and the end of week 12: W in all year courses* and all second-semester courses.• After week 12 of the second semester: F in all courses* unless the deans find the withdrawal is justified.*Students who complete the first semester of year courses may request credit for that work.  Half credit is granted if approved by both the instructor and the student’s advisor.  The grade assigned is usually, but not necessarily, the tentative grade.  Instructors may require a final exam.  In the absence of such a request for half credit, W is recorded as above.
/bold/Personal Leaves/endbold/Students in good standing may request a personal leave of absence (withdrawal) from a dean and, if granted, take time off from the College.  Such time away, often as a period of reassessment and self evaluation, can prove to be educationally beneficial.  A leave may be granted for not less than one semester and not more than one year.  Students who take personal leaves of absence are readmitted with the approval of the Dean of Students Office and are expected to complete the degree without further interruption.
Students in good standing may request a personal leave of absence (withdrawal) from a dean at any time.  If a student is granted a personal leave of absence after the semester begins, but before the end of 10 class days, the transcript will list the date of withdrawal as the day before the term began.  If a personal leave is allowed after the end of the 10th class day but before the end of week twelve of the term, the transcript will list the date of withdrawal and the courses in progress, each with a “W.”  If a personal leave is granted after week 12 of the term, the transcript will show grades received, unless the student petitions for WIs (withdrawal due to illness).
/bold/Medical Leaves/endbold/Students with medical and/or psychological conditions that warrant withdrawal from the College may request leaves of absence from a dean at any time and, if granted, withdraw from the College.  Verification of the condition, along with a recommendation for the leave, must be provided from an appropriate health care professional.
If a student withdraws for medical and/or psychological reasons, the transcript will indicate the date of withdrawal and WIs for each course.
Readmission is contingent upon the medical condition being sufficiently resolved or managed successfully so as to enable the student to resume successful progress toward the degree.  While on leave, students are expected to seek necessary or appropriate medical attention and to document the steps taken and progress made.  This information will be requested and made part of the readmission process along with assessments from appropriate medical and/or psychological professionals.  Additional information may be sought and might include a personal interview and input from family members, employers or others who interacted with the student while on leave.  In cases where there has been significant psychiatric or psychotherapeutic involvement, the student may be required to meet with a member of the College’s psychological counseling staff in advance of readmission and/ or as a condition of continued enrollment.  Final decisions about readmission are made by the Dean of Students Office.
/bold/Mandatory Withdrawal/endbold/The College may require the withdrawal of a student who has any illness or condition or who exhibits any behavior that might endanger or be damaging to the health or welfare of the student or any other member of the College community, or whose illness, behavior or condition is such that it cannot be managed effectively while the student is enrolled.  A student who leavesthe College under such circumstances normally will be required to spend at least one academic year away before readmission is considered.  Any student who is on conditional enrollment or any other sanction through the Committee on Academic Standards (CAS) at the time of withdrawal must also have her or his readmission reviewed by CAS prior to return.
/bold/Applicability/endbold/Kenyon endeavors to provide a safe and orderly environment in which all students are able to pursue their academic and social development.  The College reserves the right to require a mandatory withdrawal of any student whose behavior or lack of participation or contribution is incompatible with minimal standards of academic performance, social adjustment or safety.  Students for whom this policy applies include:
/italic/1./enditalic/ Students who are deemed to be a danger to themselves or others.  “Danger to self or to others” is here defined as any danger of suicide, self-mutilation, accident or assault substantially above the norm for college students that necessitates extraordinary measures to monitor, supervise, treat, protect or restrain the student to ensure his or her safety and/or the safety of those around him or her.
/italic/2./enditalic/ Students whose behavior is severely disruptive.  “Disruptive” is here defined to include but is not limited to behavior that causes significant property damage or directly and substantially impedes the rightful activity of others.  It also includes behavior that causes emotional, psychologicalor physical distress to fellow students and/or employees substantially above that normally experienced in daily life.  Such disruption may be in the form of a single behavior incident or somewhat less severe but persistent disruption over a more extended period.
/italic/3./enditalic/ Students who refuse or are unable to comply with recommended or required assessment and/or treatment, or whose behavior or physical condition is likely to deteriorate to the point of permanent disability, disfigurement, impairment, dysfunction or death without such assessment and/or treatment.  Where standard assessment is impossible, indirect behavioral observations will constitute the basis for such judgment.
/italic/4./enditalic/ Students accused of violating Kenyon policies, procedures and regulations and who either lack the psychological capacity to respond to judicial charges or could not understand the wrongfulness of the behavior at the time of the offense.
/bold/Process for Mandatory Withdrawal/endbold/Implementation of this policy shall be as timely and expeditious as possible, while careful to avoid undue haste It should be noted that in some situations — particularly those in which a mandatory withdrawal is involved — it is in neither the student’s nor the College’s interest to delay emergency action.  

The vice president of student affairs or her/his designee may impose a mandatory withdrawal according to applicable criteria noted above.
The dean or designee shall be responsible for advising the student of the mandatory withdrawal and the processes for an informal hearing to resolve the student’s status.  When feasible, the student shall be afforded the opportunity to review withthe dean or designee the rationale for the leave/withdrawal.  The student may have support persons present, including parents and medical or mental health professionals familiar with the student’s case.  In no event may the student be accompanied by legal counsel at such informal hearing or related meeting to review the rationale for the leave/withdrawal.
If a mandatory withdrawal is imposed, an informal hearing to determine the student’s status will be scheduled by the dean or designee.  The time of this hearing shall be set to permit ample time for information gathering related to the student’s illness, condition or behavior.  This may necessitate and include an indefinite period of leave/withdrawal pending such information gathering.
/bold/Informal Hearing/endboldStudents subject to a mandatory withdrawal shall be accorded an informal hearing before the vice president of student affairs or her/his designee.
The dean or designee shall convene the meeting.  Individuals deemed necessary to present a case for leave/withdrawal or to respond to questions by the student may be included.
The student may be accompanied by advocates or support persons, such as a family member, faculty or staff member, or a health and/or mental health professional.
The informal hearing shall be non-adversarial and conversational. The dean or designee will lead the meeting and may exclude any person who disrupts the meeting.  The hearing may be conducted in the absence of the student if the student has been given sufficient notice.
The decision of the dean or designee shall be rendered within a reasonable period of time.  If leave/withdrawal is indicated, the written decision shall include the rationale and the process by which the student may request reinstatement.  The decision will be final and not subject to appeal.
/bold/Return from a Mandatory Withdrawal/endbold/A student subject to a mandatory withdrawal must request an informal hearing when he or she desires to return to the College.  Information will be provided at that time regarding the requirements for reenrollment.
/bold/Financial Arrangements/endbold/Students who withdraw during the academic year are subject to tuition charges as stated in the Explanation of Fees and Charges section of the Kenyon website.  The general fee, other fees and book charges are not refundable.  Rebates for board may be granted on a weekly prorated basis.