Kenyon endeavors to provide a safe and orderly environment in which all students are able to pursue their academic and social development. The College reserves the right to require a mandatory withdrawal of any student whose behavior or lack of participation or contribution is incompatible with the College’s standards of academic performance, social adjustment or safety. Students for whom this policy applies include:
/italic/1./enditalic/ Students who are deemed to be a danger to themselves or -others. “Danger to self or to others” is here defined as any danger of suicide, self-mutilation, accident or assault substantially above the norm for college students that necessitates extraordinary measures to monitor, supervise, treat, protect or restrain the student to ensure his or her safety and/or the safety of those around him or her.
/italic/2./enditalic/ Students whose behavior is severely disruptive. “Disruptive” is here defined to include but is not limited to behavior that causes significant property damage or directly and substantially impedes the rightful activity of others. It also includes behavior that causes emotional, psychological or physical distress to fellow students and/or employees substantially above that normally experienced in daily life. Such disruption may be in the form of a single behavior incident or somewhat less severe but persistent disruption over a more extended period.
/italic/3./enditalic/ Students who refuse or are unable to comply with recommended or required assessment and/or treatment, or whose behavior or physical condition is likely to deteriorate to the point of permanent disability, disfigurement, impairment, dysfunction or death without such assessment and/or treatment. Where standard assessment is impossible, indirect behavioral observations will constitute the basis for such judgment.

/italic/4./enditalic/ Students accused of violating Kenyon policies, procedures and regulations and who either lack the psychological capacity to respond to judicial charges or could not understand the wrongfulness of the behavior at the time of the offense.