/italic/This section is from Article IV of the Campus Constitution, passed Dec. 7, 2010./enditalic/
The Student Conduct Review Board is designed to address alleged infractions of the College’s nonacademic regulations. It was created to ensure the protection of student rights. The Student Conduct Review Board operates through a clearly articulated process designed to determine the facts. When appropriate, it will respond to violation of College policy in a manner that is intended to be for the purpose of educating about accountability and upholding the standards of the community. (For information about the procedures for the Academic Infractions Board, which is separate from this process, please consult the Kenyon College Catalog.)
The limitations of the College’s student conduct review system should be recognized. Therefore, when an individual believes a crime has been committed, the College recommends that charges be filed in the criminal justice system, as well as with the College. Members of the Student Affairs staff and the director of campus safety can assist students in making contact with the appropriate state and federal criminal justice agencies and provide support throughout the process. Students should be aware that some College staff members may be bound by law to report certain offenses to criminal justice authorities. Within the College’s conduct system, the following shall be the case:
• Any member of the campus community may file a complaint against any student for alleged misconduct by contacting the Campus Safety Office, the chair of the Student Conduct Review Board or a member of the student affairs staff. Complaints must be filed in writing within 30 days following notification to the College administration of the alleged incident.• Pursuant to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, all College conduct proceedings are confidential; therefore, hearings are closed to anyone not directly involved in a case. It is expected that the results of a conduct hearing will respect the privacy rights of those involved.• Cases shall be decided upon a standard of preponderance of evidence.• Respondents will be considered not responsible until determined otherwise, and it shall be the responsibility of the complainant to establish the facts supporting his or her claim.• Attorneys may not represent respondents or complainants at a Student Conduct Review Board hearing.• The College’s jurisdiction regarding discipline includes conduct that occurs on College property or at a registered College event or that adversely affects the College community and/or the pursuit of its objectives. College disciplinary proceedings may be instituted against a student charged with violation of a federal, state or local law that is also a violation of the student code, even though civil litigation in court or criminal arrest and prosecution are pending. Proceedings may be carried out prior to, simultaneous with, or following civil or criminal proceedings.