Housing matters at Kenyon are handled by the Office of Housing and Residential Life. Areas of responsibility include housing contracts, the housing lottery process, room changes, roommate concerns, facility issues and residential safety policies. For more information, please contact the Office of Housing and Residential Life at (740) 427-5142 or email reslife@kenyon.edu.

/bold/1. Residential Requirement/endbold/All students enrolled at Kenyon are required to live in College housing and enroll in the College dining plan. Students found living off campus without permission from the Office of Housing and Residential Life will be subject to disciplinary action.
/bold/2. Housing Terms and Conditions/endbold/All students are required to sign the Office of Housing and Residential Life Housing Terms and Conditions prior to moving into their housing assignments each academic year. This is a binding agreement stating that students will read and comply with all rules, regulations and policies related to housing and residential life while an undergraduate at Kenyon and live in their assigned residential space. These include, but are not limited to, rules set forth in the current Kenyon Student Handbook and all other documentation provided by the Office of Housing and Residential Life.
/bold/3. Assignment Information/endbold/The College believes that an important part of the residential learning experience is getting to know and interact with community members.
Students are provided space within the residence-hall system while they are undergraduates at Kenyon; they are not guaranteed a specific room. Assignments will be made according to procedures and space available as established by the Office of Housing and Residential Life. Roommates in the residence halls are assigned without regard to race, creed, sexual orientation or national origin. Any actions that jeopardize the rights of a roommate or other students in the residential community to normal use of the assigned residence are unacceptable, and the student responsible is subject to disciplinary action.
The Office of Housing and Residential Life reserves the right to reassign, remove or suspend (pending review) from campus housing any student at any time. Reassignment or removal may result if a student exhibits disregard for the residential community, violates the terms and conditions of the Housing Terms and Conditions/housing contract/division, theme, or program house requirements, or violates other College rules and regulations. In addition, the Office of Housing and Residential Life reserves the right to reassign students to address administrative issues. In the event of an unresolved conflict involving students sharing a room, apartment or suite, the Office of Housing and Residential Life may dissolve the entire living arrangement and require all of the residents to relocate.
The College may terminate a student’s housing and take possession of the room/space at any time (1) upon violation of the Housing Terms and Conditions/housing contract; or (2) at the direction of a duly authorized judicial body, dean or other officer of the College; or (3) following a student’s suspension or dismissal from the College.
Any student who is notified that he or she is reassigned or removed from a campus housing space or from the College, or who is withdrawing from the College, must vacate within 48 hours of receipt of such notice, unless instructed otherwise by the Office of Housing and Residential Life or its designee. Any of the student’s possessions remaining on the premises after that time will be deemed abandoned, the student will be assessed a late-vacate fee up to $150, and any cost incurred in removing the possessions will be charged to the student.
Students with disabilities, as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act, may apply for a housing accommodation, including an emotional support animal. See Kenyon’s Emotional Support Animal (ESA) Policy for additional information.
/bold/4. Accountability/endbold/
Each campus housing space is to be used only as the personal living quarters of the assigned individuals and in accordance with the rules and regulations of the College. Students cannot loan, lease, sublet and/or buyout other students’ rooms. All assigned residents of single or shared living spaces are responsible for all activities taking place in the room/suite/apartment/house, whether the assigned resident(s) is (are) present or not. The assigned residents may also be held responsible for any prohibited items found in the space.

/bold/5. Occupancy Period/endbold/Students may occupy their assigned spaces in campus housing while academic terms are in session, starting with the fall-term move-in dates published by the Office of Housing and Residential Life for either upperclass students or first-year students, as appropriate. All students except seniors and those authorized to stay for late departure must vacate their rooms by the closing date and time. Extensions, if given, must be approved by the Office of Housing and Residential Life and may be subject to a fee. Graduating seniors may remain until 7 p.m. the evening of graduation. Student residences are closed during Thanksgiving break, winter break and spring break. Students must vacate their rooms by the closing date and time posted. Students are not permitted to return to campus housing prior to the posted opening date and time for each break period.
/bold/6. Break Housing/endbold//italic/*Defined as any time that the College is not open when academic terms are in session./enditalic/
If students are affiliated with an approved group, or have another approved commitment related to the opening and/or closing of the College, or during a break, they may request permission to return early, stay late, or stay during a break period. Students must request permission in writing and in advance from the Office of Housing and Residential Life; current students may not stay as guests of other students during any break period. During break periods, all rules and regulations of the College as detailed in the Student Handbook are still in effect. Being in College housing when the College is not in session, without permission from the Office of Housing and Residential Life, is a violation of College policy; violators are subject to disciplinary action and fees. A daily fee for break housing may be assessed for each student permitted to stay in College housing during a break period.
/bold/7. Room Condition and Contents/endbold/It is expected that student quarters, including public areas, will be kept in good condition and used in a careful, safe and proper manner, and that students will abide by the College’s policies. The condition of student rooms is assessed prior to the beginning of the fall semester and during the week that immediately follows the close of each academic year. Students will be responsible for reviewing the condition of their living spaces on the “Room Condition Report” at move-in and check-out. All rooms and common areas in residential areas must be returned to the same condition in which they were found at check-in.
Particular attention is given to cleanliness and to whether damage beyond normal wear has occurred. Room residents are responsible for the condition of their room, apartment or suite and for the payment of costs that may result from damage or conditions that require cleaning and/or repair.
Charges will be assessed for repainting; refinishing; fabric replacement for furniture; carpet replacement; repair or replacement of damaged or missing furnishings and equipment; unassembled beds; reinstallation of closet doors; cleaning; removal of extra furniture, cinder blocks, abandoned property or large quantities of trash; or other unusual conditions requiring correction. The Office of Housing and Residential Life website, kenyon.edu/reslife, provides a list of common charges. Students are responsible for notifying the Office of Housing and Residential Life immediately upon discovering any deterioration or altered room condition.
The College does not assume any responsibility for, nor does it provide insurance coverage for, the loss of or damage to a student’s personal property/effects when stolen, damaged or destroyed through willful, malicious or careless acts, or by causes beyond the control of the College. It is strongly recommended that students check if their belongings are covered by a current insurance policy or purchase renter’s insurance to cover the cost of repairing and/or replacing their personal belongings should they be lost, stolen or damaged.
/bold/8. Public Area Damages/endbold/Charges will be assessed for damages or vandalism to public areas in campus housing. If the individual(s) responsible for the damage cannot be identified, charges will be divided among all students sharing responsibility for that public area (e.g., hall, floor, building).
/bold/9. Keys/endbold/Students are responsible for all keys assigned to them for their designated living space(s). There will be a $150 charge per key to replace the key(s) and change the lock(s). Students must return keys to the Office of Housing and Residential Life when a living space is vacated; unreturned keys carry a $150 per key fee. Unauthorized possession, duplication or use of residential keys, as well as tampering with locks, are subject to disciplinary action. Students are responsible for immediately notifying the Office of Housing and Residential Life when they notice a missing key so that the door lock can be re-keyed to ensure safety of people and belongings in the space.
Students who have been locked out of their rooms or locked out of a residence hall and require a door to be unlocked should contact Campus Safety to request the door be unlocked. They should show proof of identity. When Campus Safety unlocks a door for a student, a charge of $25 per unlocked room door and a charge of $25 for external door (proxy card) will be assessed to the student’s account and these funds are contributed to a scholarship fund. Any questions regarding an unlock charge should be directed to Campus Safety, as this office initiates these transactions.
/bold/10. Abandoned Property/endbold/All items left in student rooms after closing are considered abandoned property, will be discarded and a charge will be assessed for their removal.
/bold/11. Guest Policy/endbold/Students are responsible for the conduct of their guests in their living area or building and on campus, whether the student host is present or not, at all times. Student hosts are accountable for any misconduct, loss or damage caused by their guest(s).Guests must register at Campus Safety in order to participate in campus events and activities.
/bold/12. Overnight Guests/endbold/All overnight guest stays are contingent on the approval of all residents of the living space. An overnight guest (any person staying in a room overnight who is not a designated resident of that space) may stay for up to three nights per month.
/bold/13. Room Entry, Search and Seizure/endbold/Kenyon College believes that each student has the right to privacy within their room; however, if the need for access arises, students are expected to be in open communication and cooperate with College officials.
Specifically, students’ right to privacy should be observed at all times except when the following criteria are met:
• To eliminate disruptive noise (e.g. alarm clocks, etc.) if the resident(s) are not president;• College staff have the right to enter student rooms to complete break closings and monthly Healthand Safety Inspections, conducted by Housing and Residential Life staff members to ensure continued student health and safety, maintain room cleanliness, and/or check and monitor maintenance concerns;• College staff, as well as maintenance contractors have the right to enter student rooms to fulfill maintenance requests, to address maintenance concerns and/or provide room improvements; when service is not requested by a room resident, college officials will provide notice;• Emergency situations when imminent danger to life, safety, health, or property is suspected;• There is reasonable suspicion that state, federal, and/on local laws are being violated (firearms, illegal drugs, drug paraphernalia, etc.); and/or• There is reasonable suspicion that the Student Code of Conduct is being violated (hazing, etc.);
In recognition of the right of all parties involved, except in extreme emergency situations, College officials must have permission from the director of housing and residential life or the vice president for student affairs or designee before entering a student living area without the permission of a resident. The staff members must observe the following procedures whenever it is necessary to enter a student living unit that is maintained by the College:
/italic/1./enditalic/ Staff members and maintenance contractors shall not enter a room without first knocking and identifying themselves. Except in extreme emergency situations, two housing and residential life, campus safety and/or student affairs staff members will be present when entering student rooms. One maintenance staff member and/or contractor may be present./italic/2./enditalic/ It is preferable, but not necessary, that one or all residents are present whenever staff members enter student units, even if they do not provide permission to do so./italic/3./enditalic/ Staff members will not disturb the personal belongings of a student without that student’s consent, except for emergency maintenance or safety conditions that require immediate attention./italic/4./enditalic/ Searches will not be conducted in personal closed storage areas (e.g., desk or dresser drawers and room closets) without the prior permission of the student or without the expressed written permission of the dean of students, associate/assistant dean of students, or designee, whose documentation will indicate why a search is being conducted and what items are specifically being sought. An exception to this procedure can be made in the case of a violation of health and safety standards or extreme emergency situations./italic/5./enditalic/ Items left out in plain view that appear to establish a criminal act and/or a violation of College policy will be confiscated and documented. A referral will be made to the appropriate College officials, the College conduct review system or an appropriate law-enforcement agency./italic/6./enditalic/ When College officials have removed items from a living unit in the absence of the residents, they will document the items that were removed and will leave instructions for the residents to contact Campus Safety or the appropriate student affairs staff member(s) upon their return./italic/7./enditalic/ College staff members will not admit third parties, other than authorize contractors, into a student room without a resident’s permission./italic/8./enditalic/ The College will cooperate with law-enforcement officials who, having obtained legally-issued warrants, seek entry to students’ living units for the purpose of executing such warrants.

/italic/*Any items obtained under conditions that violate these regulations shall be inadmissible in student conduct hearings./enditalic/
/bold/14. Community Living and Conduct/endbold//italic/a. Approved Appliances./enditalic/ Students may keep the following appliances in their rooms: microwave ovens of 900 watts or less; refrigerators not larger than 4.9 cubic feet in size; stereo equipment, computer equipment, coffeemakers; curling irons; hair dryers; fans; surge protectors; and non- halogen lamps./italic/b. Cooking/Kitchens./enditalic/ The College provides cooking facilities for student use. Students are allowed to use a microwave oven and coffeemaker in their rooms, but all other cooking should be done in the kitchens. Appliances with open coils (including, but not limited to, hot plates, toasters and toaster ovens) are not permitted in College living units, except the Acland Apartments, Morgan Apartments, North Campus Apartments, New Apartments, Pink House, Delt Lodge and designated community kitchen spaces. Food and trash resulting from cooking must be disposed of properly. All kitchen lockers and common area refrigerators will be cleaned out at the end of each semester. The gas and propane that is used for grills is also prohibited and must be stored by Campus Safety when not in use./italic/c. Gambling./enditalic/ Gambling is prohibited in any residence hall, student room, public area or academic building on campus.
/italic/d. Hallways./enditalic/ Residence hall hallways are public spaces and are also critical in the event of an emergency requiring the evacuation of the building. Thus, it is important to keep hallways clear of clutter. In order to ensure easy egress from residence hall rooms, students are not permitted to keep sports equipment, shoes, boots or any other personal items in the hallways. Any damages in a hallway will result in charges allocated to the individual(s) responsible. If the individual(s) responsible for the damage cannot be identified, charges will be divided amongst the entire room and/or group of students responsible for that space./italic/e. Lounges./enditalic/ Lounges in residence halls are designated as common-use spaces; as such, they are open to all students. Any person or group wishing to hold a meeting or gathering in a lounge must submit a room reservation request through EMS to reserve the space. Lounges are not to be used for sleepovers or other longer-term closed gatherings without the permission of the Office of Housing and Residential Life. If the individual(s) responsible for the damage cannot be identified, charges will be divided amongst the entire room and/or group of students responsible for that space./italic/f. Noise./enditalic/ In an academic setting, the need for quiet study takes precedence over recreational activities that cause noise. Noise is disruptive whenever it disturbs others. Quiet hours for all campus residences are: Sunday-Thursday, midnight-8 a.m. and Saturday-Sunday, 2-8 a.m. During final-exam periods, quiet hours prevail 24 hours a day. All other times are considered courtesy hours, when students are asked to co-operate with a request from other community members./italic/g. Pets./enditalic/ To preserve student health and safety, pets are prohibited in all College residences, with the sole exception of fish in bowls or in tanks that do not exceed 10 gallons. Any student or living unit found with a pet will be charged up to $500 for cleaning all affected living spaces and any damage caused by the pet. See Kenyon’s Emotional Support Animal (ESA) Policy for additional information regarding service and emotional support and service animals, which are not considered pets./italic/h. Post Office Box./enditalic/ The Office of Housing and Residential Life assigns post office boxes in cooperation with the Gambier Post Office. Each student is assigned a box-mate; the box-mates share the post office box during their time at Kenyon. Students are issued keys to their assigned post-office boxes at first-year check-in. The Office of Housing and Residential Life reserves the right to reassign any box if a student withdraws for any reason other than an off-campus study program. Students must have their keys to get mail./italic/i. Prohibited Items in College Residences./enditalic/ Flammable liquids (e.g., bottles of propane gas, gas for grills, lighter fluid, dangerous chemicals, etc.), candles, incense or other open-flame devices, regardless of wick or condition of wick and purpose, are not allowed in College living units. Allowing excessive dirt or garbage to accumulate is prohibited. Draperies or tapestries are not allowed on ceilings, covering any lights, or on more than approximately 50 percent of walls. Appliances that are not UL-approved are prohibited, especially those that have high surface temperatures or that may create a fire or shock hazard, such as sun lamps, halogen lamps, air conditioning units of all types and space heaters. Tents and hoverboards are prohibited. Cleaning game or fish on campus is prohibited. (See also CC. Weapons, below.)/italic/j. Satellite Dishes and Cable Television./enditalic/ In order to keep and use a satellite dish legally in a campus residence, students must observe the following guidelines:
• They must request permission from the Office of Housing and Residential Life.
• The dish must be completely inside the room so that the window can fully close. Neither the dish nor any of its parts may be outside the window frame.• The dish must be free-standing and not attached in any way to any furniture, to any part of the room or to any part of the building, interior or exterior.• The dish and its signal are to be used only in the room where the dish is located. Students may not run wires or cables to other rooms or elsewhere on campus. Repair of damage caused by unauthorized use will be assessed to students assigned to the rooms involved in the violation.• The assigned residents of the living space are responsible for ensuring that the satellite dish system does not result in any violation of College rules and regulations.• If the satellite dish system is associated with illegal behavior, damage, vandalism, a violation of any Kenyon policy, or other areas of concern, College officials may require that it be removed.• The College provides cable television service to all main lounge areas; it is not available in student rooms. Residents of Farr Hall, the Acland Street Apartments, the North Campus Apartments, the New Apartments and the Taft Cottages may contract directly with the cable company for service.
/italic/k. Solicitation./enditalic/ Student residences are not open to any person selling or buying./italic/l. Storage./enditalic/ The College does not provide storage space for suitcases, boxes and the like. The College is not responsible for any lost or stolen items. Kenyon property is not permitted to be stored in storage rooms or programming houses./italic/m. Room Capacity./enditalic/ The maximum number of people that can function safely and comfortably in a room is determined by dividing the square footage of the room by 20 (rounding down). Students must not exceed any room’s capacity.
/bold/16. COMMUNITY LIVING AND CONDUCT/endbold//bold/a. Approved Appliances/endbold/ Students may keep the following appliances in their rooms: microwave ovens of 900 watts or less; refrigerators not larger than 4 9 cubic feet in size; stereo equipment, computer equipment, coffeemakers; curling irons; hair dryers; fans; surge protectors; and non-halogen lamps.
/bold/b. Cooking/Kitchens/endbold/ The College provides cooking facilities for student use.  Students are allowed to use a microwave oven and coffeemaker in their rooms, but all other cooking should be done in the kitchens.  Appliances with open coils (including, but not limited to, hotplates, toasters and toaster ovens) are not permitted in College living units, except the Acland Apartments, Morgan Apartments, North Campus Apartments, New Apartments, Village Inn Apartments, Wiggin Street House and designated community kitchen spaces.  Food and trash resulting from cooking must be disposed of properly.  All kitchen lockers and common area refrigerators will be cleaned out at the end of each semester.  Gas grills also are prohibited.
/bold/c. Gambling/endbold/ Gambling is prohibited in any residence hall, student room, public area or academic building on campus.
/bold/d. Hallways/endbold/ Residence hall hallways are public spaces and are also critical in the event of an emergency requiring the evacuation of the building.  Thus, it is important to keep hallways clear of clutter In order to ensure easy egress from residence hall rooms, students are not permitted to keep sports equipment, shoes, boots or any other personal items in the hallways.  Any damages in a hallway will result in charges allocated to the individual(s) responsible.  If the individual(s) responsible for the damage cannot be identified, charges will be given to EACH student for the FULL amount of the charge.
/bold/e./e. Lounges/endbold/ Lounges in residence halls are designated as common-use spaces; as such, they are open to all studentsAny person or group wishing to hold a meeting or gatheringin a lounge must contact the head community advisor for that building to reserve the space Lounges are not to be used for sleepovers or other longer-term closed gatherings without the permission of the assistant director of housing and residential life for the area Any damages in a lounge will result in charges to the individual(s) responsible If the individual(s) responsible for the damage cannot be identified, charges will be given to EACH student for the FULL amount of the charge.
/bold/f. Noise/endbold/ In an academic setting, the need for quiet study takes precedence over recreational activities that cause noise.  Noise is disruptive whenever it disturbs others.  Quiet hours for all campus residences are: Sunday-Thursday, midnight-8am ; Saturday-Sunday, 2-8am.  During final-exam periods, quiet hours prevail 24 hours a day.  All other times are considered courtesy hours, when students are asked to co-operate with a request from other community members.
/bold/g. Pets and Animals/endbold/ To preserve student health and safety, animals are prohibited in all College residences, with the sole exception of fish in bowls or in tanks that do not exceed 10 gallons.  Any student or living unit found with a pet or animal will be charged up to $500 for cleaning all affected living spaces and any damage caused by the pet.
/bold/h. Post Office Box/endbold/ The Office of Housing and Residential Life assigns post office boxes in cooperation with the Gambier Post Office.  Each student is assigned a box-mate; the box-mates share the post office box during their time at Kenyon.  Students are issued keys to their assigned post-office boxes at first-year check-in.  The Office of Housing and Residential Life reserves the right to reassign any box if a student withdraws for any reason other than an off-campus study program.  Students must have their keys to get mail.
/bold/i. Prohibited Items in College Residences/endbold/ Flammable liquids(e g , bottles of propane gas, lighter fluid and dangerous chemicals), candles, incense or other open-flame devices, regardless of wick or condition of wick and purpose, are not allowed in College living units.  Allowing excessive dirt or garbage to accumulate is prohibited.  Draperies or tapestries are not allowed on ceilings, covering any lights, or on more than approximately 50 percent of walls.  Appliances that are not UL-approved are prohibited, especially those that have high surface temperatures or that may create a fire or shock hazard, such as sun lamps, halogen lamps, air conditioning units of all types and space heaters.  Cleaning game or fish on campus is prohibited (See also AA. Weapons, below.).
/bold/j. Satellite Dishes and Cable Television/endbold/ In order to keep and use a satellite dish legally in a campus residence, students must observe the following guidelines:• They must request permission from the Office of Housing and Residential Life.• The dish must be completely inside the room so that the window can fully close.  Neither the dish nor any of its parts may be outside the window frame.
• The dish must be free-standing and not attached in any way to any furniture, to any part of the room or to any part of the building, interior or exterior.• The dish and its signal are to be used only in the room where the dish is located.  Students may not run wires or cables to other rooms or elsewhere on campus.  Repair of damage caused by unauthorized use will be assessed to students assigned to the rooms involved in the violation.• The assigned residents of the living space are responsible for ensuring that the satellite dish system does not result in any violation of College rules and regulations.• If the satellite dish system is associated with illegal behavior, damage, vandalism, a violation of any Kenyon policy, or other areas of concern, College officials may require that it be removed.• The College provides cable television service to all main lounge areas; it is not available in student rooms.  Residents of Farr Hall, the Acland Street Apartments, the North Campus Apartments, the New Apartments and the Taft Cottages may contract directly with the cable company for service.
/bold/k. Solicitation/endbold/ Student residences are not open to any person selling or buying.
/bold/l. Storage/endbold/ The College does not provide storage space for suitcases, boxes and the like.  The College is not responsible for any lost or stolen items.  Kenyon property is not permitted to be stored in storage rooms or programming houses.
/bold/m. Room Capacity/endbold/ A room’s capacity, the number of maximum people that can function safely and comfortably in a room, is determined by dividing the square footage of the room by 20 (rounding down).  Students must not exceed any room’s capacity.