/italic/Statement adopted by Campus Senate on May 13, 1964; revised June 1972/enditalic/
The objectives of Kenyon College include the development of maturity in moral and social behavior as well as the cultivation of intellectual excellence.  Social and moral attitudes and behavior have a great influence upon the intellectual quality of the College; most especially, the patterns set by the students as a group create a major portion of the environment within which each as an individual, as well as each member of the faculty and administration, lives and works.  A substantial area of personal freedom for the individual is necessary if a student is to perceive and voluntarily accept the attitudes and conduct of maturity, that is, if one’s educational experience is to produce the desired results.  Reluctant conformity to external pressures will not serve this end.  Imposed conformity is not compatible with the rural and isolated nature of the College, where there are few opportunities outside the College to relieve the pressures of academic life.
The College’s concern for the conduct of each student arises initially from its concern for each as an individual, but is reinforced because of the influence each has on fellow students.  The patterns of student attitudes and conduct have even more far-reaching implications, however, when one remembers that the students determine the character of the entire community.  The patterns affect the attractiveness of the College as a place for faculty to live and teach.  They influence the willingness of parents to send their sons and daughters here, and the ability of the College to attract financial support from alumni and other sources.  Concern for the opinions of faculty, parents and alumni means that, ultimately, students must be guided by the standards of the adult world, at a level somewhere between the average and the ideal.
In this spirit, the restrictions and regulations have been kept at a minimum consistent with the welfare of individuals and of the community.  Responsible behavior is set forth as a challenge and as an opportunity.  That is, while the College does not force students into conformity, it does not believe that students should be left entirely on their own to set standards of behavior and to develop self-discipline.
At college, a student is in transition from the relative rigidity of home or preparatory school to the independence and responsibility of adulthood.  To leave the moral and social standards of college life entirely to the influence of student peer groups is to insure the danger that adult standards will be unrepresented.  Too frequently it is immature and antisocial acts that are the most visible to impressionable students seeking models and standards, however atypical such acts may be.  Upperclass students and faculty members have a willingness and an obligation to see that correct models and standards are set lest the worst social and moral patterns become impressed upon and stand for all the students of the community.
It is with this latter point in mind that Kenyon affirms basic standards of behavior that cannot be disregarded with impunity.  Any behavior which seriously affects the academic performance of the student or of fellow students, which offends the sensibilities of others (whether students, faculty members or visitors), or which causes damage to the property of the College or of individuals will result in disciplinary action.  Kenyon students are required at all times to show due respect and courtesy; and vulgar behavior, obscene language or disorderly conduct are not tolerated. Acceptance of such a code reflects a mature under- standing of social freedom.
Formal responsibility for student discipline is shared by the president (working through the vice president of student affairs) and the faculty (working through its representatives on Campus Senate and the Student Conduct Review Board).  One of the advantages of a small liberal arts college is that students are brought into continuous personal contact with their academic teachers and benefit informally from their wider experience and greater maturity.  The effectiveness of this contact will be best revealed when the students realize that to make the system of social freedom at Kenyon operative, there must be an agreement between what they feel to be reasonable conduct and what the College authorities enforce as standards.  It is in this sense that responsible behavior is both an opportunity and a challenge.