Procedures for handling infractions of regulations established by the administration.
The purpose of the Kenyon College conduct process is to review alleged violations of Kenyon policies, procedures and regulations by individual students, groups of students or student groups. The various components of the College conduct system are designed to respond to such violations, to determine the facts based on a standard of the preponderance of the evidence, to ascertain responsibility or non- responsibility regarding the alleged charges, and to determine appropriate sanctions.
The vice president for student affairs or designee has the authority and responsibility for the administration of the Kenyon conduct process. The members of the Division of Student Affairs and the Student Conduct Review Board seek to provide a conduct process and disciplinary function that educates students about their rights, responsibilities and accountability as members of the Kenyon community. The College’s conduct process encourages students and/or the groups to which they belong to recognize their obligations to themselves, to their peers, to Kenyon and to society as a whole. Therefore, a goal of the conduct process is to build an understanding on the part of the students of the positive and negative outcomes of one’s behavior and the manner in which that behavior can and often does affect others. Through established procedures, the College conduct process seeks to ensure the protection of student rights in questions of alleged violations of Kenyon policies, procedures and regulations.
It should be noted that the College reserves the prerogative to require students to leave the campus prior to the formal consideration of alleged violation of policies whenever their activities are viewed as threatening or potentially injurious to the well-being or property of members of the Kenyon community or to the property or orderly functioning of the College. An individual or group may be required to curtail or modify behavior and/or activities prior to the formal consideration of alleged violation of policies whenever these behaviors and/or activities are viewed as threatening or potentially injurious to the well- being or property of members of the Kenyon community or to the property or orderly functioning of the College. An individual who chooses to voluntarily withdraw may still be subject to the conduct process if and when the student is readmitted.
Kenyon’s president or designee (normally, the vice president for student affairs) may invoke immediate interim suspension following an incident of serious misconduct on the part of individuals or groups when the offender poses a threat to self, others, property or the orderly functioning of the College or when a felonious act has been committed. In compliance with federal and Ohio law, Kenyon reserves the right to notify authorities and the local community of any dangerous or threatening situations and to take action without the consent of the victim.
The College reserves the right to determine whether particular violations of local, state or federal laws also constitute a violation of Kenyon rules and standards. Therefore, students who are arrested and charged by law-enforcement authorities may be notified that College disciplinary action also is pending. The 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution does not refer to or place restrictions upon private action, and therefore private institutions of higher education, including Kenyon, are not bound by the prohibitions in the 14th Amendment. The College is in a contractual relationship, not a constitutional relationship, with its students, unless it is in some way acting on behalf of the state, and its procedures are designed to protect the best interests of all its students and the Kenyon community as a whole.

In cases where students have allegedly violated both campus regulations and statutory laws, the College may be faced with a situation where it must take action in its code of conduct prior to action by the courts. This does not constitute double jeopardy for the student, since the campus and the community are two separate jurisdictions. Therefore, the proceedings are independent of each other and one need not necessarily await the outcome of the other. The institution is maintaining its integrity by lawfully determining that the student is unfit to continue in the academic community. Kenyon reserves the right to take action against a student in cases where the College feels that the presence of the student on campus may endanger or disrupt the Kenyon community. (See also the Campus Government Constitution, Article IV, available at kenyon.edu/campus-government-constitution.)
The College may delay granting a diploma otherwise earned until the completion of the student conduct process including completion of any sanctions imposed.

/bold/Infractions/endbold/Infractions of nonacademic rules and regulations will be reported to the vice president for student affairs, who, with other members of the Student Affairs staff and the Student Conduct Review Board, has jurisdiction in such cases. Initially, a staff member will be assigned to make a preliminary inquiry into the nature and circumstances of each alleged violation. The accused student(s) and/or group will be contacted by the Student Affairs staff member to schedule a meeting to discuss the report or complaint of alleged behavior and to review the conduct review procedures and the student’s rights in that process.
In cases when the staff member deems the student(s) and/or group not responsible, or feels that the infraction(s) merit(s) nothing more than a warning, the staff member may adjudicate the case within a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days while the College is in session. If the infraction appears to call for a more serious sanction, such as disciplinary probation, suspension or dismissal, the student affairs staff member shall consult with the accused student(s) and, at the discretion of the staff member, with the chair of the Student Conduct Review Board. The accused person, persons or group are normally given the opportunity to elect either an administrative hearing or a hearing by the Student Conduct Review Board for judgment, and if appropriate, assignment of a sanction. Note that the staff member assigned to a case always has the prerogative to refer the case to the Student Conduct Review Board because of serious alleged violations for which a hearing by the community, as represented by the Student Conduct Review Board, might be more appropriate. Such a referral by the staff member may also occur when the case is of such a nature that the staff member cannot formulate a judgment on the basis of the information available. The choice for a student or group may be limited to an administrative hearing if the alleged violation occurs at a time when the Student Conduct Review Board cannot be convened.
/bold/Rights of the Complainant and Rights of the Respondent in an Administrative Hearing Process/endbold/When students or group participate in an Administrative Hearing, certain procedural rights are afforded:
/bold/Rights of the Complainant/endbold/• The right to decide whether to file a complaint and proceed with a formal hearing.• The right to review all relevant written documents prior to the hearing.• The right to present evidence and witnesses. Witnesses must testify to factual evidence only and may not be called to testify to the character of an involved party.
• The right to question all evidence, as well as witnesses and the respondent(s).• The right to have an advisor, who is a member of the administration, faculty or student body, who is not party to the case, to assist in the preparation of the case and be present at the hearing. The role of the advisor is to ask clarifying questions and to advise the student, not to present the case. It is the student’s obligation to present his/her/their own case.
/bold/Rights of the Respondent/endbold/• The right to an unbiased hearing and one based on evidence presented at the hearing.• The right to remain silent; silence is not construed as culpability.• The right to receive written notification of the complaint(s) brought against him/her at least one business day prior to an administrative hearing.• The right to review all relevant written documents prior to the hearing.• The right to a hearing conducted without unreasonable delay following the notification of complaint(s), not to exceed 30 business days while the College is in session.• The right to present evidence and witnesses. Witnesses must testify to factual evidence only and may not be called to testify to the character of an involved party.• The right to question all evidence and information, as well as witnesses and the complainant.• The right not to self-incriminate.• The right to have an advisor, who is a member of the administration, faculty or student body who is not party to the case to assist in the preparation of the case and be present at the hearing. The role of the advisor is to ask clarifying questions and to advise the student, not to present the case. Students are obligated to present their own cases.• The right to written notification of a decision in a case in a timely manner, not to exceed five business days.• The right to appeal the decision of administrative hearing officer to the dean of students. In situations where the dean of students is unable to consider the appeal, the vice president for student affairs shall fulfill this role. The appeal must be based on one or more of the following criteria:	o procedural error(s) made during the original proceeding; 
	o new information unavailable at the original proceeding; 
	o the severity of the sanction; and/or	o decision(s) made absent a preponderance of evidence.
It should be noted that in an appeal, the preponderance of evidence shifts to the respondent, and that an appeal is not a rehearing of the case. The letter of appeal must be filed with the dean of students or designee within three business days of written notification to the respondent of the outcome of the administrative hearing. The dean of students or designee will normally make a decision regarding the written appeal within 15 business days of receipt of the written appeal. In the presence of unusual circumstances, only the president of the College may grant additional time to the dean of students or designee for consideration of the appeal. Normally an appeal will be considered unless it is obvious that none of the criteria listed for an appeal is present. In considering an appeal, the dean of students or designee may deny the appeal and maintain the decision of the administrative hearing officer, grant the appeal and modify the sanction or penalty, or refer the case back to the administrative hearing officer for further deliberation. The decision of the dean of students or designee regarding the case shall be final and not subject to further appeal.

/bold/Sanctions/endbold/While sanctions may be of a punitive nature, they are intended to be educational as well. Notice of sanctions may be sent to the student’s parents or guardian, faculty advisor or coach, and the infraction is entered on the student’s record in the Dean of Students Office. One year following graduation, all disciplinary records are purged except those involving incidents that resulted in suspension or dismissal from the College. For students who withdraw from the College, all records are retained for five years. Actions that may be taken, individually or in combination, by the staff member or the Student Conduct Review Board are:
• /italic/Statement of Concern./enditalic/ May be issued to students who are found in the presence of a policy violation, but who are not held formally accountable for that violation.• /italic/Warning./enditalic/ A warning is notification that a student has committed certain violations and that continuance of such conduct will result in more severe disciplinary action.• /italic/Educational Sanctions./enditalic/ These include but are not limited to alcohol education, mandatory counseling assessment and adherence to professional counseling recommendations, research paper or project, hall or building program with a residential life staff member, group education program, etc.• /italic/Behavioral Contract./enditalic/ The purpose is to allow a student to successfully manage himself or herself while remaining an active member of the Kenyon community. The contract may be entered into only by the student affairs staff. Failure to complete the agreed-upon provisions of the contract would result in suspension from the College, unless the student voluntarily withdraws. Whether suspended or withdrawn, the student must follow the re-admittance process outlined in the Kenyon College Catalog.• /italic/Administrative Hold on Student Accounts./enditalic/ Enforced most often when students have failed to comply with assigned tasks from a conduct hearing. This action precludes students from registering for classes and obtaining such documents as transcripts and diplomas. Once the outstanding sanction has been satisfactorily completed, the hold will be lifted.• /italic/Disciplinary Service./enditalic/ Service hours expected to be completed in a given area as a way to give back to the campus or local community.• /italic/Fine/Restitution./enditalic/ A fine or restitution is a monetary penalty for violations such as vandalism or damage to College property or the property of others. All fines must be paid by personal or cashier’s check; they will not be applied to a student’s account.• /italic/College Restriction./enditalic/ Restriction from certain buildings, events, activities, etc.• /italic/College Housing Restriction./enditalic/ Residence re-assignment, removal from College housing, loss of lottery points, or restrictions on type of housing where a student may live.• /italic/Disciplinary Probation./enditalic/ This sanction means that for a specified period of time (ordinarily noless than the equivalent of one semester) a student is not in good standing with the College.• /italic/Administrative Withdrawal./enditalic/ Withdrawal from a specific course, major or academic department may be invoked in cases where a student or group of students violates expectations of the academic arena (classroom incivility, disruption, harassment of faculty or other students in the classroom).
• /italic/Deferred Suspension./enditalic/ This involves students who have been held responsible for behavior that warrants suspension but where mitigating circumstances and additional sanctions may allow a student to remain in the community while these sanctions are being completed. Failure to complete any of the additional expectations by the stated deadlines will lead to the immediate implementation of suspension without further hearing. In addition, if a student is found responsible for any further College policy violations, at minimum, the student will automatically be recommended for suspension for at least one full semester.• /italic/Suspension./enditalic/ The denial of the opportunity to continue in the College for a specified period of time (ordinarily no less than one semester), or indefinitely until the student’s intervening record can support an application for readmission. While suspended, a student is not allowed to be on campus or to attend any official College event. The intent is for the student to have time away from the College to consider the implications of his or her behavior and to return to campus with a better understanding of his or her responsibility within the community. In the event that additional sanctions are imposed in conjunction with the suspension, these sanctions will most likely be expected to be completed prior to an application for readmission to be considered.• /italic/Dismissal./enditalic/ The denial of the opportunity to continue as a student at the College. A student who has been dismissed is not eligible to apply for readmission. A student who is dismissed is not allowed to be on campus or to be at any official College event at any time.
The sanction or sanctions determined at the time of a hearing (administrative or Student Conduct Review Board) are effective immediately following the appeal period unless indicated otherwise by the dean of students or her/his designee.
Policies governing the recording of suspensions and dismissals on the student’s permanent record can be found in the College’s academic rules and regulations published in the Kenyon College Catalog.
For organizations and groups, disciplinary action may include, but is not limited to, restriction of social events; loss of housing privileges; probation; suspension; dismissal; and/or removal of recognition of the group.
If a sanction is violated, the individual and/or group shall be subject to further disciplinary actions.
In any case of discipline, whether it is adjudicated by a staff member or by the Student Conduct Review Board, that judgment shall be final, subject only to appeal by the respondent to the dean of students or designee. Such an appeal must be filed within three business days of the official notification. A form for this purpose is available at the Office of the Dean of Students. After hearing the appeal, the dean of students may sustain the decision being appealed, impose an independent judgment of the case, or refer the case back to the Student Conduct Review Board officer for further deliberation.
In the case of a Student Conduct Review Board hearing, an audio recording of the hearing will be made by the administrative liaison to the Student Conduct Review Board. The recording is the property of Kenyon College, and it is available only to the dean of students for the purpose of making determinations stemming from an appeal of the results of a Student Conduct Review Board hearing. Other parties may not have access to, or copies of, the recording. The recording is destroyed when: (1) the time period for filing an appeal expires without an appeal being properly filed, or (2) a decision is made by the dean of students in the event of an appeal.