More information about Kenyon’s Title IX/Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Policy is available at /italic/kenyon.edu/title-ix/enditalic/.
The College is committed to fostering a climate free from sexual and gender-based discrimination, harassment and violence, intimate partner violence and stalking through clear and effective policies, a coordinated education and prevention program, and prompt and equitable procedures for resolution of reports of conduct prohibited under this policy. The College encourages all members of its community to participate in the process of creating a safe, welcoming and respectful environment on campus.
Sexual and gender-based discrimination, harassment and violence, intimate partner violence and stalking, in any form, are serious violations of College and community standards and values, and will not be tolerated at Kenyon. The College is committed to taking all appropriate steps to eliminate prohibited conduct, prevent its recurrence and address its effects. Individuals found responsible under this policy may face disciplinary sanctions up to and including dismissal from the College and/or termination of employment.
The College will not tolerate retaliation against an individual who makes a report or participates in any proceedings under this policy. Kenyon College policy prohibits any form of retaliation, and community members engaging in retaliation will be subject to disciplinary action, whether such acts are implicit or explicit, or committed directly or indirectly.
This policy provides the Kenyon community with (1) resources and recourse for individuals who experience prohibited conduct,* (2) guidance to a complainant, a respondent or other affected community members, (3) Kenyon’s expectations for healthy respectful interpersonal interaction and communication, and (4) a procedural outline for addressing behaviors that are counter to Kenyon’s mission and prohibited by this policy.
All College proceedings under this policy are conducted in compliance with the requirements of Title IX, the Clery Act, as amended by the Violence Against Women Act, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), and state and federal law. No information shall be released from such proceedings except as required or permitted by law and College policy.
/italic/*When used in this policy, complainant refers to the individual(s) who experiences Prohibited Conduct, regardless of whether that individual makes a report or seeks formal disciplinary action. A respondent refers to the individual(s) who has been accused of Prohibited Conduct./enditalic/