Social Events are defined as gatherings with alcohol hosted in public spaces. Social Events of this type, in public spaces, must be registered with the Office of Student Engagement. It is the goal of Kenyon to provide an environment in which safe social events may be hosted by individuals and campus organizations. It is expected that those who agree to host social events also agree to ensure the safety of those in attendance.
Social events may occur between 4 p.m.-2 a.m. on Fridays and 1 p.m.-2 a.m. on Saturdays. Outdoor social events must end no later than 10 p.m. Social events may not exceed four hours. Noise from events will be kept to a minimum in consideration of others in surrounding areas. No music will be played outdoors after 10 p.m. without prior approval from the Office of Student Engagement. Social events may only occur during the regular academic year. Permission for social events during other periods of time need to be approved by the Office of Student Engagement.
/bold/Responsibilities of Social Event Hosts/endbold/Social event hosts shall monitor and comply with established safety expectations and rely on Campus Safety Officers for guidance and support when a safety risk exists. Campus Safety Officers are permitted unrestricted access to any social event. It is the goal of the College to support a campus culture in which responsible use of alcohol is promoted and that students are being mindful of potential safety risks.
Social events with alcohol sponsored by any student(s) or student organization located in public College space must be registered through the social events registration form, found through the Office of Student Engagement website. Social event registration forms must be submitted no later than noon on the Tuesday immediately preceding the event. Registered events should be held only on public College property and other pre-approved designated spaces affiliated with the College. Exceptions may be made for student(s) or student organizations planning events at locations not affiliated with the College with approval from the Office of Student Engagement. A minimum of 4 weeks planning time with the Office of Student Engagement is typically required.
Social event hosts accept responsibility for the actions of themselves and their guests. Hosts agree to host their event in compliance with federal, state, and local laws in addition to College policies. Social events with alcohol must be hosted by students who are of legal drinking age (21 or over). Hosts are responsible for being knowledgeable of, and complying with, occupancy limits for their social event space. Hosts and students assisting the hosts in the form of bartenders, door workers, and floaters, must complete social host training prior to submission of the social event registration form. At any one time, the two hosts must be accompanied by four bartenders (21 or over), two floaters per each space used, and two door workers per each entrance/exit of the event space.
Social event hosts are responsible for all damage to the social event space as well as areas around the space.

/bold/Guest/Attendee Identification/endbold/Attendance at Social Events is limited to guests who are 18 years of age or older. Attendees at social events are required to present a College issued ID card. Non-Kenyon student guests must be accompanied by their Kenyon student host and must present legal proof of age with a state issued ID card. The hands of all attendees will be marked to designate attendees who are 21 or over, and also for attendees who are under the age of 21. Bartenders are responsible for checking the age of the attendees each time a guest is served.
/bold/Food and Beverage Expectations/endbold/Social event hosts are responsible for providing beverages and food. Non-alcoholic beverages and food must be readily available for the entire duration of the event. All beverages at social events must be in clear cups. Campus safety officers have full discretion to determine whether there is enough food and non-alcoholic beverages for attendees.
A maximum allotment of alcohol is permitted for social events on weekends; a 10 keg equivalency for each permissible weekend day with a maximum five keg equivalency for any single social event (140 servings per keg). BYOB events are not permitted at Kenyon College. Only beer and wine may be served. Occupancy limits for the space may not be exceeded.
Water/beer pong tables are permitted at indoor social events with 75 or fewer attendees or outdoor social events with 20 or fewer attendees. Clear cups must be used for the table game. Up to two tables can be registered. Participants may not have more than one beer at a time; if beer is used in the cups, then no “side beer” can be consumed. No college property may be used for water/beer pong tables. Presence of water/beer pong tables must be designated ahead of time on the social events registration form as the presence of the tables may modify space occupancy limits.
/bold/Social Events Registration Request Process/endbold/Social events may either be open invitation to the campus community or closed for a specific population. Social event hosts must complete the social events registration request form, found on the Office of Student Engagement website. After review, the social event hosts will receive notification if the social event registration request has been approved, denied, or requires further information. A list of approved events will be shared weekly with appropriate campus offices in Student Affairs, maintenance, etc.
/bold/Summer Sendoff/endbold/Summer Sendoff is a campus event managed by the Division of Student Affairs. During Summer Sendoff, students may not register additional social events. Specific plans for Summer Sendoff will be determined annually, in coordination with Social Board members, by the Office of Student Engagement.